Hey guys.
Welcome to lecture 14 now.
This lecture will be going over series.
So this is going to be the first lecture
where we start to take a look at
the Pandas Module.
It's gonna be a really useful module for
analyzing data.
So let's see how it works.
First off let's go ahead and
import Numpy as np, and then
we're gonna import pandas as pd.
And from pandas we're gonna
import Series and DataFrame.
So, Series is what we're gonna be
working with mostly for this lecture.
We're gonna be using it so often that we
don't wanna have to write PD.Series or
PD.DataFrame all the time, so
we're just gonna import those separately.
So let's go ahead and
click Alt+Enter, Wanna import.
Cool.
So let's create a series.
A series is like an array in Numpi except
it has data labels so it's indexed.
Show you what I mean.
Let's go ahead and
just create an object here.
And we'll call Series, kind of in
the same way we were calling np.array.
And we'll put a little list or array at 3.
Let's say 3, 6, 9, 12.
Just multiples of 3.
And then let's go ahead and show that.
Alt+Ent.
Cool.
So let's take a look at
what's different here.
You can see that each value is indexed so
the zero index we'll call a 3.
If we want to just see
the values of this series
object we can say call values on it so
dot values.
And I'll show us the values in an array.
If we wanna see the index,
We can also say dot index.
And that'll show the index values,
0, 1, 2, 3.
So each of these index values
corresponds with these series values.
So, since index is a big
part of series and
later on we'll see data frames, as well,
let's go ahead and create a series
with an index that we specify.
So, let's go ahead and create a series.
I'm gonna call this one ww2_cas, so
we're gonna make a series for
World War II casualties.
And I'm getting this
information off Wikipedia.
So let's say,
the numbers I'm gonna use are 8.7 million.
So 1, 2, 1, 2, 3.
And you can really put in any values
you want here, but this is just for
demonstration purposes.
1, 2, 3, 4.3 million,
and then 3 million on this guy, six zeros.
2.1 million, three zeros, and
then we'll go with 400,000, 2, 3.
So, those are the values of the series and
then we can say comma index equals and
now we're gonna make an index for
each of these value numbers.
So, if you know something
about World War II,
you might guess that that 8.7 million
value belongs to the USSR's casualties.
They suffered the most casualties in
that war, as far as any allied nation.
Then second one's was Germany's.
Third one was actually China.
Suffered quite a bit of casualties.
Next one was Japan's casualties.
And then last one was
United States casualties.
Then let's go ahead and
see what that series looks like.
Cool.
So now our index is
actually the country name.
And then the value is
the number of casualties.
So we can use index values
to select series values.
So to show you what I mean by that,
we'll type in our series name.
and then type in our index names.
Let's say we wanted to know
the casualties in the United States,
we could call that and
then we would get the 400,000 mark.
A really interesting thing we can do with
series is check with array operations,
so let's say I wanted to check
which countries had
casualties greater than 4 million.
The way I can do that, sorry for
the spelling and countries.
So how can we do that using a series?
Well we can, type out our series and
then we can just put in
an array operation argument.
So for instance, we'll put in our series
greater than 4 million, or four,
one, two, three, one, two, three.
So we're calling for the values that were
greater than 4 million in the series.
Let's go ahead and see what happens.
Cool.
So you get that USSR and Germany are the
two countries that had casualties greater
than that 4 million mark.
We can also treat a series as
an ordered dictionary in Python.
So for instance if we wanted to just check
if a index or value was in a series,
we could say something like
USSR in our series name, and
we'll either get a true or false.
We should get a true in this case
since USSR is in our series, and
we do get the true.
Since it kind of behaves
a bit like a dictionary,
we can actually convert
a series into a dictionary.
So to do that,
I'll create a dictionary name,
I'll call it WW2_dict.
And the way to convert a series
into a dictionary, is just calling
to_dict on it.
And then I'll show what that looks like.
Cool, so now our series is
actually turned into a dictionary.
Let's say we wanted to convert
it back into a series,
we can call it whatever we
want to name that series, and
then we can just feed into the series
command, that dictionary name.
You can actually feed
dictionaries into series.
Let's just go ahead and
show what that looks like.
And now we have a series again.
So let's say you were gonna pass
a dictionary into the series.
The index will have
the dictionary keys in order.
So to show you what I mean
by that let's create a list.
So how about we create another list
of countries, let's say China.
These will all be strings, Germany.
You don't have to do this many, but
this is just to follow along with.
The iPython Notebook
that's on the GitHub link.
And, lets just do Argentina for
another one.
So we have our countries.
So we have a list of countries, and
we can redefine another series,
so we'll call it object 2.
We'll have it be a Series.
We'll pass that World War II
dictionary on it, and
then we'll set the index to come
from our list of countries.
And we'll see what that looks like.
So if you notice here, Argentina was
not in our original dictionary list.
So we scroll back up here and see ww2_dict
only had China, Germany, Japan, USA, USSR.
So since Argentina wasn't in there pandas,
when you pass it through a series with
a particular index that didn't have
that value, it'll just give a nan value.
So it didn't find it,
just that null value.
Pandas has built-in
methods to find null and
replace them or
check through there or not.
Those are is null and not null.
So let's take a look at
what those look like, so
we can call pd.isnull,
that object two we just made.
And so it's gonna check every value and
see if it finds a null value there or not.
So Argentina showed up true since
there was a null value there.
Let's say you want to do
the opposite command,
you wanted to find where
there were not nulls.
So you can just call
notnull on the object.
And then you'll get the opposite.
So China, German,
Japan, USA, USSR, were not nulls,
since they did have number values there.
Argentina is false, it was a null.
So it was not a not null.
Let's go ahead and
check out that World War 2 series again.
Cool.
So,
another thing we can do in Pandas,
is we can add
Series to Series, and it'll
automatically align the data by index.
To show you what I mean by that,
let's see what object two looked like.
So they're the exact same thing except
object two has a null value for Argentina.
So if we add up our World War II series,
add it to object 2.
What we should expect to see is in China,
have $6 million.
In Germany, have $8.6 million etc.
What we will expect is that
there's no value for Argentina.
So let's just see what happens here.
Cool.
So it lines them up by index.
You don't have specify.
Even if they're in the wrong order it'll
still add up the correct values by index.
You can give your series names.
So for instance object 2,
we can name it to have a string name.
So if you want to get more specific and
call it World War 2 Casualties
and then let's show you what
happens when you do that.
So I'll show you the series and
then I'll show you the name of the series,
World War II Casualties there.
So when you're dealing with Python, it's
still gonna have this object name, obj2,
but the actual series itself has a name,
World War II Casualties.
You can also name the index.
Since our index is just
a bunch of countries,
we can do that by calling index and
then calling name on the index.
We can label that index as just countries.
Now let's see what that looks like.
Cool.
Now you've labeled this index countries.
It's a bit like Excel, like you're
labeling this index column countries.
So that's a little intro to series.
Next we'll learn about data frames.
We're gonna be working a lot with
series and a lot with data frames so
you're gonna see all of this often.
So don't worry if you didn't
quite get it this first time.
You'll see it many,
many more times throughout this lecture.
All right, I'll see you at Lecture 15.